Readme.md, before:

## Getting Started
Start by cloning this repository, making sure to pass the `--recursive` flag to grab all the dependencies. 
If you forgot, then you can `git submodule update --init` instead.

```bash
git clone --recursive https://github.com/Subham0207/game-engine/
cd Glitter
cd Build
```

# Integrating Boost library
1. download source code from https://www.boost.org/releases/latest/.
2. extract file and put in under ./Glitter/Vendor/
3. cd into boost directory. For more detail follow https://www.boost.org/doc/user-guide/getting-started.html or run following cmds
    run booststrap.bat
    then b2.exe to compile lib. And then
    b2 install --prefix=../Boost_install
4. Note the version of boost is what is referenced in cmakelist of your project. So if you downloded a different version update that.

Now, run build from vs code or execute `.\run_debug.bat` to generate build files
Then make sure in build/cmakecache.txt to make -- `gtest_force_shared_crt:BOOL=ON`. Read More detail on this in Documention file of this project.

# Integrating Lua and sol2 libraries:
Lua is a scripting library. Sol2 simplifies the use of Lua.
1. Download binaries of Lua from https://luabinaries.sourceforge.net/
2. Place it under ./Glitter/Vendor/ and things should work
3. sol2 is being fetched by project cmakefile using fetch content.
4. the cmake file automatically copies the lua dll from lua directory into exe's directory. if it fails check directory names.

## Documentation

Functionality           | Library
----------------------- | ------------------------------------------
Mesh Loading            | [assimp](https://github.com/assimp/assimp)
Physics                 | [bullet](https://github.com/bulletphysics/bullet3)
Physics                 | [JoltPhysics](https://github.com/bulletphysics/bullet3)
UI                      | [ImGui](https://github.com/bulletphysics/bullet3)
Gizmo                   | [ImGuizmo](https://github.com/bulletphysics/bullet3)
OpenGL Function Loader  | [glad](https://github.com/Dav1dde/glad)
Windowing and Input     | [glfw](https://github.com/glfw/glfw)
OpenGL Mathematics      | [glm](https://github.com/g-truc/glm)
Texture Loading         | [stb](https://github.com/nothings/stb)

Commit message:

Rename EngineState; track statemachines in engine state

Readme.md, after:

## Getting Started
Start by cloning this repository, making sure to pass the `--recursive` flag to grab all the dependencies. 
If you forgot, then you can `git submodule update --init` instead.

```bash
git clone --recursive https://github.com/Subham0207/game-engine/
cd Glitter
cd Build
```

# Integrating Boost library
1. download source code from https://www.boost.org/releases/latest/.
2. extract file and put in under ./Glitter/Vendor/
3. cd into boost directory. For more detail follow https://www.boost.org/doc/user-guide/getting-started.html or run following cmds
    run booststrap.bat
    then b2.exe to compile lib. And then
    b2 install --prefix=../Boost_install
4. Note the version of boost is what is referenced in cmakelist of your project. So if you downloded a different version update that.

Now, run build from vs code or execute `.\run_debug.bat` to generate build files
Then make sure in build/cmakecache.txt to make -- `gtest_force_shared_crt:BOOL=ON`. Read More detail on this in Documention file of this project.

# Integrating Lua and sol2 libraries:
Lua is a scripting library. Sol2 simplifies the use of Lua.
1. Download binaries of Lua from https://luabinaries.sourceforge.net/
2. Place it under ./Glitter/Vendor/ and things should work
3. sol2 is being fetched by project cmakefile using fetch content.
4. the cmake file automatically copies the lua dll from lua directory into exe's directory. if it fails check directory names.

# Only if using VS-Code
Add this config to .vscode/settings.json. 
This is the limit the search so we ignore any dependent library code.
The last line of configurationprovider is so the intellisense is handled via cmake's state.
```
    "files.exclude": {
        "**/build/": true,
        "**/bin/": true,
        "**/Vendor/": true
    },
    "search.exclude": {
        "**/build/": true,
        "**/bin/": true,
        "**/Vendor/": true
    },
    "C_Cpp.default.configurationProvider": "ms-vscode.cmake-tools",
```

## Documentation

Functionality           | Library
----------------------- | ------------------------------------------
Mesh Loading            | [assimp](https://github.com/assimp/assimp)
Physics                 | [bullet](https://github.com/bulletphysics/bullet3)
Physics                 | [JoltPhysics](https://github.com/bulletphysics/bullet3)
UI                      | [ImGui](https://github.com/bulletphysics/bullet3)
Gizmo                   | [ImGuizmo](https://github.com/bulletphysics/bullet3)
OpenGL Function Loader  | [glad](https://github.com/Dav1dde/glad)
Windowing and Input     | [glfw](https://github.com/glfw/glfw)
OpenGL Mathematics      | [glm](https://github.com/g-truc/glm)
Texture Loading         | [stb](https://github.com/nothings/stb)
